# `findeck.io`

Welcome to your new `findeck.io` project and to the Internet Computer
development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and
some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files
to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the
development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and
the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development
environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with `findeck.io`, see the following
documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try
the following commands:

```zsh
cd findeck.io/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## System Dependencies for Development

### Node Version Manager
Please install node version manager.
```zsh
brew install nvm
```

Check to be sure nvm is installed correctly.
```zsh
nvm --version
```

You should see a value equal to or greater than `0.39.5`.

### NodeJS
Please install the latest stable version of NodeJS.

```zsh
nvm install stable
```

Check to be sure NodeJS is installed correctly.
```zsh
node --version
```

You should see a value equal to or greater than `v22.5.1`.

### Motoko Development Server

Please install motoko development server. Here are some docs related the [motoko development server](https://internetcomputer.org/blog/features/motoko-dev-server#continuous-integration).

```zsh
npm install -g mo-dev
```

## Running the project locally

### First Tab
From the root directory (should be findeck.io) start up the canister environment.
This environment is similar to a docker container (but is not docker).

```zsh
npm run dfx
```

Confirm this went correctly by checking the output. You should end up with something that looks like this. But the port number will likely be different.
```
npm run dfx

> dfx
> dfx start --clean --host 127.0.0.1:8000

Running dfx start for version 0.20.1
Using project-specific network 'local' defined in /Users/jfgrissom/Repos/findeck.io/dfx.json
Initialized replica.
Dashboard: http://localhost:52554/_/dashboard
```

Got to the dashboard (in the above example `http://localhost:52554/_/dashboard`) and you should see a webpage that looks like a basic dashboard.

### Second Tab
From the root directory deploy the containers.




Once the job completes, your application will be available at
`http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid
interface with

```zsh
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development
server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```zsh
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to
the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to
make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the
root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the
  autogenerated declarations
  - Setting
    `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string`
    in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the
    autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
